---
title: The dust of the times, falling on a person, is a big mountain...
subtitle: Visa troubles in the time of Corona, A USC graduate student's story
---
I was an undergraduate student at Beihang University and graduated in 2018. For a long time, I have had a favorable impression of the US since junior high school. After all, the US has its one-of-the-kind education system excelling around the world. For this reason, I have long decided to further my study in the US. Since the junior year, I began to participate in summer research programs for grad school applications. I had wonderful experiences at the University of Minnesota and the University of Washington. After I graduated from Beihang, I studied Quantum Computation at the University of South California for my master's program. It seems natural to me to continue my Ph.D. program at USC.

The first one and the half years in USC were rewarding and joyful. Since I had not gone back to China, in Jan. 2020, I went back to China and visited my folks. I had planned to do an intern job in China for a half year and then go back to USC in 2020 Fall. However, I didn't expect that everything was messed up by a sudden disaster ...


The first thing is the COVID-19 pandemic. My hometown Hubei Province, the main epidemic area, adopted a strict policy of stay-home quarantine. After two months of staying home, I found myself undergoing a depressive state and gaining more than 22 pounds. With the virus spreading to the whole world, I found the US has adopted an increasingly negative method towards the pandemic. In April or May 2020, Mr. Trump decided his strategic direction for his presidential election—targeting China as its enemy. It was against this background that President Proclamation 10043 came into effect.

In September 2021, my five-year F-1 visa for the former's master program in 2018 was revoked. What's worse is that students from certain Universities and other institutions repeatedly got rejected for their visas. I found myself on the verge of breaking down so much that I wanted to cry everyday morning when I got up. I comforted myself, maybe Chinese students will be welcomed if Mr. Joe Biden gets elected.

From the beginning of the President Election in November, I kept myself updated about the voting number of two candidates every day. I got ecstatic whenever I saw the swing states change from red to blue. It seemed to me that as long as Biden wins the election, I can be welcomed into the US, and we could go back to the days when students got their J and F visas successfully.

Things didn't pan out well as I expected. Mr. Biden's new government overthrew many policies, only except for the ones concerning the sino-us policies. In April, I headed to Singapore for an F-1 visa, only to get rejected under PP. 10043. I asked my school for help, and there was no practical answer. I guess it may be the end of my education path in the US. I felt so sad. It is not because of anything wrong that I have done but of the school I previously studied. What a ridiculous and helpless fact! It becomes an incredible Odyssey to revoke President Proclamation 10043 through exhausting our efforts. Tiny dust of the times, falling on one's shoulder, turns out to be a giant mountain.
