---
title: Wonderful life to be destroyed by P.P. 10043.
subtitle: Freelance Artist from Harbin Institute of Technology
---
I am a freelance artist. 
Previously, I studied English as my undergraduate major at a non-sensitive and then graduated from one of ''the Seven Sons'' with a master's degree in foreign linguistics and applied linguistics. 
Out of the sheer enthusiasm for character painting and designing, I signed up for a course in art concept and design for systematic training after my master's graduation in Jan 2020. 
I have always dreamed of being an artist in the game and film industry. 
Finally, my portfolio was recognized by the admission committee, and I got admitted into the Academy of Art University and would study 3D Game Character Development. 
It seemed that my dream was just within my reach. 
The program will last two years and requires no research nor publications. 
The only criterion for graduation is whether students can create excellent works. 
To my surprise, my visa application got rejected for the reason of 212f.

On the 14th May, the day of my visa interview, the visa officer asked for my information as a routine. 
He kept my resume and passport and told me my visa needs further administrative processing. 
On the afternoon of 17th May, the visa officer phoned me and informed me that my visa got rejected, and I may receive the same result even if I apply for an F2 visa. 
Since my husband studied in the U.S. and now working on OPT, it seems impossible for me to visit him in America. 
The COVID pandemics, coupled with the P.P. 10043, have taken us apart for nearly two years. 
As his undergrad school is also one of the targeted institutions, my husband didn't dare to return to China and get together with our family. 
Under the impact of P.P. 10043, one of us can't get a visa to enter America; the other one can't take the risk of going back. 
Who knows when the next time that we couple could get together again is? 
What a wonderful life plan only to be destroyed by this P.P. 10043. 
It has had a serious impact on my career and my family. 
At this moment, I come to understand how a speck of dust from the era can feel like a mountain on the shoulder of a person.
